---
layout: post
title:  "Plus One : Leetcode algorithm problem"
date:   2019-03-11 16:10:42 +0530
categories: hackerrank
excerpt : A leetcode algorithm problem to add one to an array of elements. In this problem, we learned to traverse the array from end, we also learned the use of ++ operator to append one before executing any other statement.
---

### Plus One

This was a very easy problem to start with, and I took a direct approach, however, later realised that I need to keep my mind open think through the solution.
This was a good learning experiance.

[Leetcode problem no. 66](https://leetcode.com/problems/plus-one/)

Given a non-empty array of digits representing a non-negative integer, plus one to the integer.
The digits are stored such that the most significant digit is at the head of the list, and each element in the array contain a single digit.
You may assume the integer does not contain any leading zero, except the number 0 itself.

Example 1:
```Input: [1,2,3]
Output: [1,2,4]
Explanation: The array represents the integer 123.```

Example 2:
```Input: [4,3,2,1]
Output: [4,3,2,2]
Explanation: The array represents the integer 4321.```

So my approach was,
1. Convert the array into String using .join method
2. Use javascript methond parseInt to convert its type
3. Plus one
4. Split the number back to array.

Below code is my attempt and it failed for large inputs

Input:
[6,1,4,5,3,9,0,1,9,5,1,8,6,7,0,5,5,4,3]
Output:
[6,1,4,5,3,9,0,1,9,5,1,8,6,7,0,5,0,0,0]
Expected:
[6,1,4,5,3,9,0,1,9,5,1,8,6,7,0,5,5,4,4]

```javascript

var plusOne = function(digits) {
    
    digits = (parseInt(digits.join('')) + 1).toString();
    var b = digits.split('').map(function(item){
      return parseInt(item);
    });
    
    return b;
    
};

```

I was succesfful at solving this upto certain extent, however then I realized that the for any input with more that 10+ array items, parseInt may behave different.
So I looked at the discussions and find a solution. At first the code looked confusing but later after putting debugger, I learned the true essence of it. 
So for this problem, my attempt failed but I learned a lot by analysing the working code.

Code that worked

```javascript

var plusOne = function(digits) {
  for(var i = digits.length - 1; i >= 0; i--){
    if(++digits[i] > 9) digits[i] = 0;
    else return digits;
  }
  digits.unshift(1);
  return digits;
};

```

Code analysis

1. Since we want to *Plus One*, we need to tranverse the array from last to first.
2. If you notice the `If statement`, we are incrementing the digits array, before comparing it with 9.
3. If the digit is greater than 9, make it 0, else return digits.
4. If the input is `[0]`, than it is taken care by using the array `unshift` operator and passing 1 to it.

