---
layout: post
title:  "2020 - Year in review!!!"
categories: essays
excerpt: At the beginning of the year 2020, I had decided that I would spend at least couple of hours a week to write down one blog post. It never happened. I could not keep up to the simple challenge that I had set for myself. However, I wanted to take some time out of today to backtrack and write down 'what went well'/'what did not go well'.
---

Today, the last day of the calendar year 2020. This year has  been the most uncertain year ever and so has it brought learnings for any individual.
I for one particularly want to backtrack and look at the things that went well and so also look at my failures.

## What went well
With Covid-19, it was WFH from almost everyone. It meant that we could same a ton of commute time and concentrate more on being productive.

### Trello board for planning my ideas
I created a Trello board for working on some of my ideas. As a rule of thumb, it is always better to write down things that excite you so that you can time travel and come back to. I loved using Trello since its inception and so this year I thought I would keep up with a board to plan things. 

### Love for Flutter
I always wanted to work on mobile applications. With the new Google Flutter framework, I was so excited and it was the best framework I have used. I did not create any end to end apps as of now but I started by following many YouTube series related to Flutter and I could code along with the instructor. So that gave me confidence.

### Following YouTube tutorials
As mentioned in the above point, I loved watching and following YouTube series, so most of my year (maximum screen time) was spent watching and learning from the free Videos that great educators had created. I was very cautious of not getting distracted by other YouTube recommendations. I also extensively used "Do not recommend this channel" and "Not interested" feature of YouTube. For eg. I would watch game streams a lot at the beginning of the year and soon realized that it was a waste of time.

### Starting a YouTube channel
Yes, I started streaming Flutter. Initially I had confined to following YouTube tutorials when learning Flutter but then it was obvious that I would keep getting new Tutorials and it is not feasible to follow all the tutorials. Even though I would learn a lot, It was not actually learning. I had to experience and create apps myself.
To begin with, I spent some time on Dribble and selected few UI designs for mobile apps. I then started working on them and I enjoyed the process. I wasn't sure if the folder structure I used were appropriate or not, but I was beginning to create my own recipe of creating mobile apps. 

- While I was working on the UI, I had this tendency to get distracted. This meant a task that would take about 1hr would elongate to couple of hours and I had no tracking of it. 
- I started streaming. Streaming from single laptop allowed me to stay concentrated towards my goals.
- Streaming allowed me to take quick decisions. For eg. If I spent a lot of time just researching, it meant that my streaming was pointless. So I had to decide whether I really want to work on that feature or settle with an alternative. 
- Streaming kept me accountable. I had to pick a particular time during the day to stream. Also, I wanted to really understand how things worked with streaming so this allowed me to experiment.

### Advent of Code, LeetCode etc.
I was addicted to HackerRank and LeetCode for couple of months in the year 2019. The mere joy of solving a programming puzzle and getting your answer accepted was the only motivation. Towards the end of the year, I continued solving couple of problems a day. I fell in love with Advent of Code and so started solving the problems from 2015. So far this year, I have solved 12 problems and while most of my solutions are brute force approach, it kept me engaging. I was timing everything and even though for many occassions I spent a lot more time than expected, I was aware about it. 
 
- CodeForces is the next thing I want to target.
- I plan to solve and work on timed challenges going forward. I will certainly do that.

### What I learned this year?
- Angular
- Bootstrap
- Python - To solve all the programming challenges
- Flutter and in turn Dart

### 1000 Words a day
While I was not publicly blogging my thoughts and this blog was dead for almost 6+ months, I had taken up the challenge of writing 1k words a day. After watching productivity videos from a famous YouTuber Ali Abdaal, I was inspired to start using Notion and write 1k words per day. 
The Idea was to write down any and every thought that came in my mind. It was an  exercise I really enjoyed during the start of the day or towards the end of the day. It has been almost of 6 months that I have maintained these logs, even though they are not 1k words but few hundred words now. 

## What did not go Well?
It boils down to "Consistency" and "Discipline". 
I was constantly distracted and I could feel that I had wasted a lot of time. I was trying to do a lot of things and the mere anxiety of not able to achieve complete 100% of any particular task led huge distractions. 
I strived for perfectionism and in the end could not get anything done. Also, if I had timed something and If I could not achieve it, the negative effect would compound.

## New year resolutions?
I am in love with all the things that I have considered doing in 2020. I just want to stick with it. 
The obsession of doing all things in one day has certainly been exhausting. However if I plan my schedule and keep a google calendar for everything, It will definitely help me. 

Instead of working on hobby projects, I want to be working on products.

- Convert this blog to use gatsby
- Work on an end-to-end flutter application
- Work on CodeForces challenges/LeetCode, HackerRank etc and improve my python skills.
- I wish to revive this blog and spend more time posting my thoughts. 

---

WISHING EVERYONE A HAPPY NEW YEAR 2020

---

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCcxqwN9AGUNd3C9bNmvVlhw/featured)
[GitHub](https://github.com/codingbbq)